## Welcome to the program **SEARCH** webpage. ##

SEARCH is an individual based, behaviorally complex spatially-explicit population model that allows researchers to simulate animal dispersal across complex, realistic landscapes while modeling a range of search processes and habitat selection rules. SEARCH can be used to simulate a wide variety of animals over multiple successive dispersal seasons. Temporally dynamic landscapes can be simulated in SEARCH to reflect changes in habitat quality and/or spatial arrangement. Animals in SEARCH are parameterized to reflect movement behavior, energetics, and home-range requirements. Baseline landscape and animal parameter values can be modified to reflect variability caused by gender, activity mode, behavioral mode, time of day, and date. As SEARCH can be run for multiple years, stochastic reproduction is modeled and resident females reproduce annually.

From the [Downloads tab](http://code.google.com/p/paz-search/downloads/list) at this page you are able to access a user’s guide for SEARCH.  Also you are able to access zip files that contain everything you will need to run SEARCH on either a 64 bit machine or a 32 bit machine.  The user’s guide provides details on how to set SEARCH up.  Sometime soon we hope to have a full install version of SEARCH set up that will automate much of this set up work for you. In the mean time simply refer to the user’s guide.  This downloads tab also includes a zip file with example maps and xml files that you can use as you explore SEARCH and learn how to conduct simulations.  On this page you can also download a text document with screen shots that demonstrates how to download a read-only copy of the SEARCH source code.  Finally, this downloads page includes a pdf version of a manuscript that is a technical description of SEARCH and its capabilities. You can also access that paper [here](http://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0064656) and additional technical documentation [here](http://paz-search.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/doxygen/index.html).  The [Wiki tab](http://code.google.com/p/paz-search/w/list) on this page provides a quick electronic index to various terms we use in SEARCH and its description which may be a useful resource to clarify our intended use of terms in SEARCH.